What is continuous delivery?
Continuous delivery is an engineering paradigm in which
teams produce and release value in short cycles.
I didn't mention tools, processes, or methodologies.
It's a paradigm, it's a way of thinking about things.
You might be wondering if continuous delivery is just a paradigm,
where does continuous integration fit?
Continuous integration is the practice of merging all developers working copies,
to a shared main line several times a day.
Continuous integration or CI,
handles everything that has to do with code, compiling,
unit tests, static analysis,
dependency vulnerability testing, using code to generate an artifact.
It's all about the zeros and ones.
If it has to do with code,
it has to do with CI.
What about CD?
Now to be clear, when I say CD,
I mean continuous deployment, not continuous delivery.
Continuous deployment is a software engineering approach
in which value is delivered frequently through automated deployments.
Continuous deployment handles everything that has to do with deployment.
Creating infrastructure, provisioning servers, copying files,
promoting to production, smoke tests,
rollbacks, all of those things.
When you think of CI, think of code and when you think of CD, think of deployments.
One just feeds naturally into the other.
Now, how are these different from continuous delivery?
Remember that continuous delivery is a mindset or paradigm,
not a set of tools.
That mindset contains and informs and
enhances the concepts of continuous integration and deployment.
CI and CD, work so well together that you hardly hear one mentioned without the other.
Once automation is in place,
CI and CD work like a pipeline of sorts.
A pipeline's job is to deliver goods or materials from one place to another.
That's appropriate in the case of CI and CD,
since we're trying to get features into users hands.
However, in the case of CI/CD,
the pipeline is special,
since the materials get transformed from one state to another in the journey.
It starts with the build which is ultimately meant to produce an artifact.
An artifact is something that can be deployed and used without any further modification.
Artifacts are typically created at the beginning of
the pipeline and then used mostly at the end of the pipeline.
Then, the pipeline continues with testing and analysis to make sure that
the code that produce the artifact is of the right level of quality.
Then when we're sure the code is fully integrated and validated,
it's ready to be deployed.
Part of deploying an artifact is creating and provisioning the infrastructure.
Ideally, we're doing this with infrastructure as code.
To provision something, just means to give it what it needs.
In the CI/CD pipeline,
we provision our infrastructure by setting up servers and
resources with the needed updates, packages, and configurations.
Infrastructure as code is just the management of
infrastructure using code instead of UI tools.
You learned all about that in the previous course.
This is where it is really going to become important.
If you think about it, our CI/CD pipeline behaves more like a value factory.
You give it raw materials on one side,
and in this case that's code,
and it gives you value on the other side.
With a pipeline or factory like this,
your team can release and release and release and never break a sweat.
We'll look more at the benefits of CI/CD in the next section.